the head of the Israeli Army has called
for the military campaign in Gaza to be
stepped up General hery Hali told troops
at a ceremony in Jerusalem that there
were signs that Hamas was falling apart
after two months of bombardment of the
Gaza Strip meanwhile Israeli tanks are
reported to be slowly advancing towards
the center of KH Yunis as intense
battles continue in southern Gaza there
are reports of house-to-house fighting
in the city there's also fighting in the
north these are the latest pictures from
the Israel Defense Forces showing gun
battles in the jabalia refugee camp
which remain surrounded by Israeli tanks
people there say that they've been
without food and clean water for several
days as the Israeli bombardment of Gaza
continues the United Nations says half
the population of the territory are
starving and nine out of 10 can't eat
every day the UN food program world food
program insisted that only a fraction of
the food supplies needed were coming in
but an Israeli military spokesperson
said they were doing everything they
could to get Aid into the Gaza Strip but
the trucks needed to be checked First
for security purposes Le correspondent
Yulan Nell has the
latest the misery of Life under canvas
four in five Garin have now fled their
homes and away from the front lines
they're still fighting to survive with
severe shortages of food and drinking
water Aid agencies say that they're
struggling to deliver the basics even
close to the Egypt border where supplies
come in humanitarian Aid at the moment
is the only Lifeline for people and
we're simply not able to get the access
that we need to get through for the past
four five six days Aid agencies such as
UNICEF have only been able to access the
Rafa governor and even then it's been
with very limited Aid and if we can't
get through soon people are are going to
really really struggle because there
isn't enough water there isn't enough
food there isn't any shelter Israel's
ground campaign is now focused on the
southern city of Ken yunes troops saying
they're going house to house and tunnel
to tunnel and the head of the Israeli
Army is calling for the offensive in
Gaza to be stepped up amid signs he says
that Hamas is falling apart here in
jabalia in the north the battles are at
Close Quarters one local told the BBC
they've received no food or water for 5
days Israel is under growing
International pressure to spare gaza's
civilians other countries should also
understand that it is impossible on the
one hand to support the elimination of
Hamas and on the other hand to call for
an end to the war which will prevent the
elimination of Hamas after this group of
men and boys taken by Israeli forces 5
days ago were released they claimed they
were tortured among them Muhammad Mahmud
Salim held separately from his dad they
made asleep naked he said and kept
hitting us with their guns they hit me
when I asked where my dad was they they
hit us with wires the BBC has asked the
Israeli military for a
response new aerial shots show Palestine
Square previously a bustling spot of
Gaza City now under control of Israeli
forces marking the Jewish Hanukkah
holiday after two months of the most
intense ever war between Israel and the
Palestinians the scale of the suffering
and Devastation here is
unprecedented yolan Nell BBC News
Jerusalem we can just show you some live
shots now of Gaza itself this is the
view from Israel looking into Gaza and
you can see huge plumes of smoke there
on the skyline going up into the sky um
we've been watching these pictures for a
couple of hours now and there's been
constant uh plumes of smoke rising up
over Gaza today that's the live pictures
from a camera in Israel pointing towards
the Gaza Street our correspondent our
Gaza correspondent Rush Abu alif gave me
the latest on the situation inside
Gaza last night there was a very heavy
fighting inun not from the direction
that the Israelis have been trying to uh
you know move into the city center of
kanun but from another Direction in the
east of kanun they came from Bena
Village and they cut through Salah Road
and now they are advancing from another
Direction into kanun people were talking
about very heavy fighting overnight and
and this morning with also Israeli
artillery fire was Heavy in that area
the since the collapse of the
humanitarian Seas fire the Israeli Army
was pushing hard towards the city of
kanun kanun is the second biggest city
in the entire of Gaza Strip and it's the
place where about a million people came
this place from the north and they were
taking canun as as a shelter now they
have to to move farther west to the area
called Al maasi it's a very small area
not not designed to receive this number
of people there's no building or
infrastructure in it and also other
people were left to RAF RAF is a very
small town near the border with with
Egypt and people are now hundreds of
thousands of people are taking this very
tiny piece of land as a as a shelter and
the humanitarian situation is really
severe in the area with very little Aid
coming other two key
places where the Israeli Army is pushing
hard is the east of Gaza City
neighborhood another stronghold for
Hamas and in the north jab but last
night the focus of the operation and the
fighting the heavy fighting was
down we've been hearing from the UN
officials saying that Aid is really only
reaching a very small area of the
territory I mean what is in terms of the
movement of people how much are people
heeding those warnings and moving around
or some people just finding that they're
having to stay put despite the fighting
around
them yes I mean like in jabalia in the
north there was warning from October the
13th about over like a month ago for the
people to leave but because the the the
south is very crowded and people don't
know where to go and since the Israelis
are controlling the Main Street Sal Ro
and there is a checkpoint and fighting
according to Hamas local author in the
north there still about 100,000 people
in jabal refugee camp itself and that's
almost like 30% of the total number of
population who lives normally in javal
Camp is the biggest Camp about
250,000 people and according to like
local Authority and the UN about half
million people are still in Gaza City
and the North and since the this map of
that this divided Gaza into too many
looks were published by the Israeli Army
following the ceasefire about 80% of the
population don't have internet to
activate this QR code and know where to
go and how to go the the Israeli Army is
droing leaflets in the area but
sometimes they ask the people to go from
this corner to that corner and they
don't know they that they should stay in
the other corner where to go because
next day they might receive another
warning to leave this corner so very
complicated humanitarian situation in
guys Abu Al there now let's go live to
Jerusalem we can speak to our
correspondent yolan Nell and we've been
hearing these dire warnings haven't we
Yan from the aid agencies talking about
how people are starving and Aid really
isn't getting through to the people who
need it and then we've also as the
counter to that we're hearing from the
head of the Israeli Army talking about
how they need to step up their campaign
in
Gaza indeed and actually if you look at
what's been happening overnight it does
seem that there is an intensification of
fighting uh there's been smoke rising up
from the Horizon over the north of Gaza
and we've heard of Heavy bombardment
Across The Strip overnight then uh down
in Ken Unice the Israeli Army has given
more evacuation orders for places in the
center of that City seen as a stronghold
of Hamas telling them to flee um but
we're hearing that the fighting actually
now is is along the main road between
yunas and Rafa so already with hundreds
of thousands of people crammed down
close to the Egyptian border it's not
really possible for people to pass more
along that route and it's going to
complicate this Aid effort even more um
with with you know Aid agencies
increasingly complaining not just that
enough Aid is there's not enough Aid
getting into the Gaza Strip but also
that it's impossible really to
effectively distribute it inside Gaza
we've also had the US approving the
emergency sale of arms to Israel will
that make a significant impact
I mean certainly this is just being seen
as as more evidence of uh the strong us
support for Israel at this stage in the
operation it's been so important with um
calls mounting internationally for a
humanitarian ceasefire uh the US had to
use its veto power to prevent a
resolution being passed at the UN
Security Council on Friday night um so
we see Israel at this stage really
pushing forwards with its operation I
think it really want
in kenun to try to find the Hamas
leaders it believes are hiding there um
it's the head of Hamas in Gaza yaka
sinir is is from that City he's not been
found in the very extensive operations
that there have been um in in Gaza City
uh further north and now that the
pressure is on the Israelis really to
try to find those Hamas leaders they
believe may be hold up now in the South
and the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu coming out overnight saying
defiantly Israel will continue in our
just War to eliminate Hamas what
happened with the negotiations in terms
of trying to reinstate the truth because
we know that the the Israelis withdrew
their people didn't they but are people
still carrying on those negotiations the
qataris like what what is happening on
that front to try and and reintroduce uh
the truth because you know so many
people in Israel will be wanting to know
about what the you know the issue with
the hostages weren't
they
of course and yes the cateres the
Egyptians uh with us involvement as well
are still working behind the scenes we
understand uh trying to get another deal
that could potentially bring hostages
out but at the moment uh all the
language from Israel it's very sort of
strong rhetoric about how uh they are
pushing forward with this stage of their
offensive last night in Tel Aviv we did
see large crowds Gathering once again um
it's making it sort of more solemn for
Israelis the fact that this is is the
the Jewish Hanukah holiday uh there are
many families who have hostages still
being held inside the Gaza Strip uh for
whom you know this is this is a really
difficult time um and 137 people still
believe to be held there and there are
calls from some section of Israeli
Society for the Israeli government to do
much more to bring those people home
thanks very much your land now for us
there in Jerusalem